docs: update maintainer guidelines (#11376)
Homebrew/brew: docs/Homebrew-brew-Maintainer-Guide.md

# Homebrew/brew Maintainer Guide

This document describes a few components of the `Homebrew/brew` repository that are useful for maintainers to
be aware of, but don't necessarily need to appear in documentation for most users and contributors.

## Reviewing PRs

Using `gh pr checkout NUMBER` is a super easy way to check out a PR branch using the GitHub CLI.

When reviewing a PR, use "comment", "approve", or "request changes" when submitting based on the following guidelines:

- Comment: if the PR isn't quite ready to be merged
- Approve: if you feel that the PR is in a good state to be merged, even if there are
  non-blocking changes you'd like to be made

> - Request changes: if you feel strongly that the PR is likely to cause a problem for users or
>   have a genuine reason to oppose the PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Request changes: if you feel strongly that the PR is likely to cause a problem for users or
  have another reason to oppose the PR.
```

## Merging PRs

> Merging should be done using the standard Merge button in the `Homebrew/brew` repository to preserve history and GPG commit signing. The Squash and Merge and Rebase and Merge buttons are disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Merging is done using the standard Merge button in the `Homebrew/brew` repository to preserve history and GPG commit signing. The Squash and Merge and Rebase and Merge buttons are disabled.
```

PRs must meet the following conditions to be merged:

> - Have at least one maintainer (or `BrewTestBot`) approval. See [below](#automatic-approvals)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Have at least one maintainer (or @BrewTestBot) approval. See [below](#automatic-approvals)
```

(and elsewhere) as iirc this should produce a clickable link.

Author: I can't remember if @-mentions in markdown are clickable but I'll test it and just make it a manual link if not

Author: In case you were curious: they don't work in markdown. And I'm pretty sure that it wouldn't transfer well to the docs page either. I'll do a manual link

  for more details about how `BrewTestBot` approves PRs.
- Have passing CI. This is a _mandatory_ step. PRs with failing CI should _never_ be merged.
  See [below](#ci) for more information about `Homebrew/brew` CI.

If possible, PRs should also have:

> - Linear commit history (i.e. no merge commits in PR branches).

Reviewer: I don't think this actually matters but I don't feel strongly either way.

- GPG-signed commits (see the private `ops` repository for instructions on setting this up).

## Automatic approvals

> To ensure that each PR has the opportunity to be seen and reviewed by any other maintainers who wish

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure that non-urgent PRs have the opportunity to be seen and reviewed by any other maintainers who wish
```

to take a look, all PRs require an approval before they can be merged. However, not every PR is
reviewed by another maintainer, and some PRs are urgent enough that they need to be merged without
an approval by another maintainer.

As a compromise between always needing a review and allowing maintainers to merge PRs they deem ready,
the `Triage` CI job will ensure that PRs cannot be merged until they've been open for 24 hours

> (only counting hours that occur during the business week). After the triage period has expired, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(only counting hours that occur during Monday to Friday). After the triage period has expired, the
```

Reviewer 2: is "during" necessary here? Perhaps, `occur Monday to Friday`

Reviewer: @maxim-belkin Agreed!

CI job will show up as "passed" and `BrewTestBot` will approve the PR, allowing it to be merged.
This gives all maintainers a reasonable opportunity to review every PR, but won't block any PR for lack
of reviews.

> If the PR is urgent enough that it is necessary to bypass that 24 hour window, the `critical` label
> can be applied to the PR. When this label is applied, the `Triage` CI job will immediately be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the PR is urgent enough that it is necessary to bypass that 24 hour window, the `critical` label
should be applied to the PR. When this label is applied, the `Triage` CI job will immediately be
```

successful and `BrewTestBot` will approve the PR.

## CI

Every PR in `Homebrew/brew` runs a series of CI tests to try to prevent bugs from being introduced.
**A PR _must_ have passing CI before it can be merged**.

> There are many checks that run on every PR. The following is a quick list of the various checks and what they represent:

Reviewer: I'm somewhat tempted to either remove these or make it clear that this list isn't complete. Otherwise, it seems likely to bitrot.

Author: I don't feel super strongly either way. I do think there's some value in having them listed because it's not super straightforward to figure out what each one does (at least in my opinion as someone who still needs to dive into the code to figure it out every once in a while even though I'm around this repo a ton).

I wouldn't be opposed to removing some of the less-frequently-filing ones that arguably aren't as important to list (e.g. docker, vendored gems)

I can definitely add a "this list is non-exhaustive and can change over time" kind of thing that would hopefully prompt someone who realizes that the list is outdated to open a PR.

Reviewer: > I wouldn't be opposed to removing some of the less-frequently-filing ones that arguably aren't as important to list (e.g. docker, vendored gems)
> 
> I can definitely add a "this list is non-exhaustive and can change over time" kind of thing that would hopefully prompt someone who realizes that the list is outdated to open a PR.

Yeh, this might make sense!

  any new/changed dependencies. See [Type Checking With Sorbet](Typechecking.md) for more information about RBI files
  and typechecking.
- `Triage / review`: This verifies that the PR has been open for long enough.
  See [above](#automatic-approvals) for more information about automatic approvals.
- `codecov/patch` and `codecov/project`: These show the Codecov report for the PR.
  See [below](#brew-tests-and-codecov) for more info about Codecov.
- `CI / vendored gems (Linux)`: This checks whether there was a change to the vendored gems on Linux that needs to be
  committed to the PR branch.
- `CI / test default formula (Linux)`: This runs `brew test-bot` on Linux to ensure it still works as expected.
- `CI / syntax`: This is run first to check whether the PR passes `brew style` and `brew typecheck`. If this job fails the
  following jobs will not run.
- `CI / tap syntax (Linux)`: This runs `brew style` and `brew audit` on all official taps
  (note that although this has Linux in its name, it does check `Homebrew/homebrew-core`,
  `Homebrew/linuxbrew-core` and all cask repos).

> - `CI / docker`: This builds and deploys a new Homebrew docker image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `CI / docker`: This builds and deploys a new Homebrew Docker image.
```

> - `CI / test everything (macOS)`: This runs `brew tests` on macOS.

Reviewer: It does a few more things, too?

Author: I don't think it does _much_ more (in terms of actual tests being run). It does run `brew update-tests` which is a separate command so I could add that. What else were you thinking should be added?

Reviewer: @Rylan12 `brew readall`, `brew test-bot --only-formulae --test-default-formula`, `brew doctor` seem like the important bits.

# Homebrew/brew Maintainer Guide

This document describes a few components of the `Homebrew/brew` repository that are useful for maintainers to
be aware of, but don't necessarily need to appear in documentation for most users and contributors.

## Reviewing PRs

> Using `gh pr checkout NUMBER` is a super easy way to check out a PR branch using the GitHub CLI.

Reviewer 3: Might be helpful to mention that this is aliased to `gh co` by default. Or mention this very useful alias:
```
gh alias set co --shell 'id="$(gh pr list -L100 | fzf | cut -f1)"; [ -n "$id" ] && gh pr checkout "$id"'
```
from https://github.blog/2021-03-11-scripting-with-github-cli/

Author: I agree this is super useful (I've used it regularly since you mentioned it to me) but I think I'd rather stick to the non-aliases for the guide.

When reviewing a PR, use "comment", "approve", or "request changes" when submitting based on the following guidelines:

- Comment: if the PR isn't quite ready to be merged
- Approve: if you feel that the PR is in a good state to be merged, even if there are
  non-blocking changes you'd like to be made
- Request changes: if you feel strongly that the PR is likely to cause a problem for users or
  have another reason to oppose the PR.

## Merging PRs

> Merging is be done using the standard Merge button in the `Homebrew/brew` repository to preserve

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Merging is done using the standard Merge button in the `Homebrew/brew` repository to preserve
```

Author: Should it be this or

```suggestion
Merging is to be done using the standard Merge button in the `Homebrew/brew` repository to preserve
```

(not sure I have a preference)

Reviewer 3: I thought of that too. However, I'd err on using fewer words when they're sufficient.

CI job will show up as "passed" and `BrewTestBot` will approve the PR, allowing it to be merged.
This gives all maintainers a reasonable opportunity to review every PR, but won't block any PR for lack
of reviews.

If the PR is urgent enough that it is necessary to bypass that 24 hour window, the `critical` label
can be applied to the PR. When this label is applied, the `Triage` CI job will immediately be
successful and `BrewTestBot` will approve the PR.

## CI

Every PR in `Homebrew/brew` runs a series of CI tests to try to prevent bugs from being introduced.
**A PR _must_ have passing CI before it can be merged**.

There are many checks that run on every PR. The following is a quick list of the various checks and what they represent:

- `Vendor Gems / vendor-gems`: This is skipped except for dependabot PRs. It updates the RBI files to match
  any new/changed dependencies. See [Type Checking With Sorbet](Typechecking.md) for more information about RBI files
  and typechecking.
- `Triage / review`: This controls whether the PR has been open for long enough or not.
  See [above](#automatic-approvals) for more information about automatic approvals.

> - `codecov/patch` and `codecov/project`: These show the Codecov report for the PR.

Author: This doesn't match the view at the bottom of the PR which is what I'm trying to emulate a bit here:

<img width="486" alt="Screen Shot 2021-05-14 at 1 42 56 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/32525609/118308730-4d603700-b4ba-11eb-986f-389c04862972.png">

  See [below](#brew-tests-and-codecov) for more info about Codecov
- `CI / vendored gems (Linux)`: This checks whether there was a change to the venered gems on Linux that needs to be
  committed to the PR branch.
- `CI / test default formula (Linux)`: This runs `brew test-bot` Linux to ensure it still works as expected.
- `CI / syntax`: This is run first to check whether the PR passes `brew style` and `brew typecheck`. If this job fails the

>   following jobs will not run.

Author: It does. The only jobs that are dependent on this are `CI / tap syntax (Linux)`, `CI / docker`, `CI / test everything (macOS)`, and the `CI / tests` matrix.  The other CI jobs (`CI / vendored gems (Linux)` and `CI / test default formula (Linux)`) will run regardless. I've put these at the bottom so there's (hopefully) no ambiguity about  which ones are dependent on `CI / syntax`.
